---
layout: page
title: Business Software
date: 2013-07-22 09:18
author: Kevin
---
Minimize unnecessary and repetitive tasks by automating your business processes so you can focus on what matters to you.

### Payroll and Human Capital Management System

Time Keeping, Leaves Tracking, Overtime Tracking, Payroll and HR Information System. 

Use our system to automate your HR and Payroll process. 

Turn the most stressful admin work in to an effortless process. Customization, Licensing and Subscription based plans available.


### Customized ERP
We'll automate your business process by creating customized systems to fit your company needs. Imagine a hassle free Inventory, Purchasing, Accounting and Finance, Project and Resource management with our powerful but fast and easy to use web based systems.

### Customized Software
We'll build what you need from scratch with the latest, global standard, open source technologies. Pay only for the features that you want and none of what you hate.

### Website Package

Hand Crafted Design, Content Management System, Registration, Hosting, Maintenance, Support complete with Mobile and Tablet compatibility, Search Engine Optimization and Social Media Integration.

Search Engine Marketing, eCommerce sites are also available.

### iPhone and Android Application Development

We can build your app for iOS and Android.

### Send an Inquiry

Leave your information and we'll have an expert call you.

<div id="mc_embed_signup"><form id="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" action="http://minimalchanges.us2.list-manage.com/subscribe/post?u=d19df5bc736718ff686440cd3&amp;id=51442b5b8c" method="post" name="mc-embedded-subscribe-form" target="_blank">
<div>* indicates required</div>
<div><label for="mce-EMAIL">Email Address*</label><input id="mce-EMAIL" type="email" name="EMAIL" value="" /></div>
<div><label for="mce-FNAME">First Name*</label><input id="mce-FNAME" type="text" name="FNAME" value="" /></div>
<div><label for="mce-LNAME">Last Name*</label><input id="mce-LNAME" type="text" name="LNAME" value="" /></div>
<div><label for="mce-MMERGE3">Company</label><input id="mce-MMERGE3" type="text" name="MMERGE3" value="" /></div>
<div><label for="mce-MMERGE4">Contact Number*</label><input id="mce-MMERGE4" type="text" name="MMERGE4" value="" /></div>
<div id="mce-responses"></div>
<div><input id="mc-embedded-subscribe" type="submit" name="subscribe" value="Subscribe" /></div>
</form></div>


[Email Kevin Olega](mailto:kevinolegaservices@gmail.com) or call +63 9178952637.